From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
88. Recorded live Wednesday, November
seven, 2007. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by Tellerik
rad controls. The most comprehensive
suite of proponents for windows
forums and asp.net web application.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by dotnet developers journal. The
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Mel Pat, a
program manager at Microsoft. Who's
written an application that syncs
faces between outlook windows, mobile
and Facebook. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and we are sitting here
today with Mel Sam pet,
a program manager on the
windows mobile team. Thanks for
taking the time to talk
to me today, Mel, and
you have an application that
I just recently installed on
my machine called out sync,
and this is something that
talks to Facebook. It talks
to outlook and it makes
my mobile phone better. So
it's really kind of a,
I, I felt that it
was a pretty complicated thing
cause it, it changed, it
touched lots of aspects of
my lives. It reached into
Facebook, it reached into outlook
and we can, and mobile,
tell me about this application,
what this does. Sure. Hey
Scott, so this application has
called out saying can, what
it does is essentially take
the photos of the people
that you know, on Facebook
that you also have as
contacts within year outlook application,
and it takes those photos
and sinks them and insert
them into your outlook contacts.
And if you've got a
windows mobile device that syncs
up with outlook, whether it's
overactive saying or over the
exchange server, those photos syncope
with windows mobile, with your
windows mobile device. So for,
for the contacts that you
have in both places on
Facebook, as well as outlook,
you would ultimately see those
photos on your phone. And
most of the stuff happens.
The actual sync of this
photos happens automatically. So, so
you got those photos into
your phone and then when
those people call you, you
see those photos on your
caller ID and every time
you opened them up in
your contacts app on your
phone. So it seems like
a pretty straightforward thing, but
there's a lot going on
underneath the covers share. But
for me as a user,
basically I ran this little
app. I logged it into
my Facebook Facebook accounts. I'm
how I told it about
Facebook. I authorized it as
an application and Facebook. Yes,
you have do that. You
have To give the application
permission to access your, your
Facebook account. So of course,
Facebook, for those of you
who aren't on Facebook, and
if you're not on Facebook,
why not is an application
to social networking application. It's
kind of a portal like
it's, you know, a friendlier
version of linked LinkedIn or
Orcutt or one of these
social networking sites. And it's
surprisingly addictive. And now I've
got about 2100 outlook contacts.
Just every time I meet
somebody, every time I get
a business card, I come
back from a convention, I
enter it in. So I'm
obsessive about this. And then
I've got, I dunno, some
couple of thousand friends on,
on Facebook and every one
of those friends has a
face associated with them. So
you're doing an intersection of
those two sets, Correct. Now
the not nice thing about
Facebook is most people that
have a profile on there
usually have a photo. Some
people, when they get started
with Facebook, they don't have
a picture there for privacy
reasons, but eventually I noticed
that most of their friends
have a photo and they
just put a picture out
there. So wouldn't it be
nice if you can grab
the latest and greatest picture
that the person chose for
for himself or herself, and
then get that into your
outlook contacts with the people
that you have in both
places. That's essentially what phase
without sync is meant to
Announcing is not an outlook
add in because I know
that I've got lots of
knots about look addons and
interestingly enough, not really willing
to add anymore. I feel
like I maybe just stabilizing
outlook a bit. So this
is something that I just
run occasionally, maybe run it
twice in the last month.
Right now. That's an interesting
that you brought that up
because I, when I first
started thinking about how I
would present the UI for
out sync, my first instinct
was to create it as
an outlook plugin, our ad.
And so it would be,
you know, like a toolbar
button that you could just
start from within outlook. But
my concern was what you
just mentioned, which is, you
know, people wouldn't want to
do this every single day
just because people people's friends
don't change the photos on
Facebook every single day. So
it just didn't make sense
loaded within the, within the
space of outlook itself. And
you know, maybe you run
it once a week and
you just want it on
demand and it doesn't take
up any memory while you're
not using it. So walk
me through the creation of
this. I mean, you sit
down and you'll file a
new application and just walk
me through what the thought
process was. Sure. So it
requires a, so obviously there
is a bunch of platforms
here, right? One is your
programming against the Facebook API
APIs, second year of programming
with, with outlook itself. And
third, I mean, this is
a desktop application, so it
could be written and managed
code or native code, or,
you know, I had to
make a few decisions there.
And ultimately, I mean, the
goal is that it brings
all this information to your
mobile phone, but strangely enough,
this, this application has no
pieces running on the phone
itself. I mean, the, the
transport of the photos from
outlook to your mobile phone
happens over exchange or Cause
you've always been able to
add pictures to context, correct.
I know people who are
like obsessively take photographs of
the people in their context
lists, but it seemed to
me that if I've already,
I can't go running, running
these 2000 people down. Yeah.
The photos are out there.
We should, we should. Those.
Yep. Yes. So, so the
way I started, this was
first, I would obviously need
access to, you know, the
Facebook information itself. My first
instinct was before I found
out that, you know, Facebook
supports all of these APIs.
I thought, well, maybe I
could screen scrape information from
people's Facebook profiles, as long
as the user gives me
his name and password, but
that just seemed very intrusive
and it didn't seem like
an elegant way to do
it. So I always knew
that Facebook has an API.
It just didn't know how
hard it was to use
in the fifth. It was
all open source, PHP, you
know, stuff, which I really
wasn't very comfortable with. I
was more comfortable with my,
with managed code for using
the.net framework. So, so I
dug around a little bit
on Facebook's developer side and
I found all their rest,
API APIs and Ajax like
code, you know, it didn't
really seem very familiar to
me. So, you know, I
started poking around to see
if anyone's written a managed
wrapper for the rest API
as a Facebook exposes. And
oddly enough, Microsoft has, you
know, a library for Facebook,
which is hosted on code
Plex, which is our open
source, you know, a website.
So this is a part
of the, if I remember
correctly, this is part of
the coding for fun guys,
As an MSDN coding for
fun project, but it evolved.
And now it's actually hosted
on code Plex. So it's
open source and a company.
You know, I forget the
name of the company that
w Microsoft hired to do
this work, but there was
this third party vendor who
actually went and created this
whole framework from Microsoft. And
it's now hosted on, on
code blacks as an opensource
project. And, and the original
MSDN coding for fun framework
is still available. But, but
the one on, on code
flex is newer and it's
got more visions and it's
got more bug fixes and
a few more features. So
what does this API feel
like? I mean, I'm thinking
about if this is ultimately
angled brackets and when we,
we usually say rest a
rest API, but there's rest
in the classical sense. I
think I'll do a show
on rest in the future,
but then there's what we
usually call pox, just plain
old XML, which isn't a
formalized thing. It's basically I
post something and something comes
back and most API APIs
that we, we, when we
say rest are actually underneath
pox, but when you wrap
that in a managed API,
you, you have to ask
yourself, am I going to
start holding state? Or am
I going to make it
look like a real request
response? What does this API
feel like? And how much
does it give away what's
going on underneath? So essentially
what happens is you, you
know, I'm, I'm going to
talk to it from the,
from the managed side, right?
So, so you, you, you
get the assemblies for, you
know, Facebook dot DLL and
Facebook dot web dot DLL.
You, you get them into
your, your solution and then,
you know, you use them.
And then, you know, if
you use a managed framework,
Microsoft provides, you're essentially shielded
from all of the underlying,
you know, rest, API and
XML. It goes back and
forth between the server and
your, your desktop application. What
happens is you, you call
a method on this, within
this Facebook class, which, which
pops a login dialogue, which,
you know, the, the UI
for the logging into Facebook
is also embedded within the
assembly. Really. So as a
desktop application developer, you basically,
you have a control that
you just drop into your
form and you say, this
is where authorization for this
application is going to appear.
The control is part of
this, this framework that the,
to download from code blanks.
So you just drag and
drop it, and you give
it a few properties such
as your application ID, your,
your author ID, your, your,
you know, which, what you
get by registering as a
developer on Facebook's website. Okay.
Okay. So step zero, go
to Facebook's developer website, register
as a developer, and then
indicate your intent to make
an application. Yes. And, you
know, and once you've done
that and that's free, anyone
can do that, right? Any,
any user can just Mark
themselves as a developer by
adding the developer application to
their profiles. So, so once
you've done that, you then
start adding applications to your
profile. Every time you add
a new application, Facebook gives
you a unique, good for
the application, and then the
secret phrase for that applicant.
So you take those two
Properties and you put them
into this control that you
dropped into your management project.
This is the property that
you sat on, just the
property. Correct. And, and obviously
you can do it with
code as well. If you
want to do it programmatically,
or if you want to
do it, if you just
want to type it into
the inspector, and then you
just call a method, you
just, I think it's called
login or authorize or something
like that. And, you know,
you just call a method
and then the UI appears
if it needs to. And
then, you know, the cookie
gets set on your, on
your machine, you know, from
within this UI, which, and
the UI is essentially a
embedded web browser. So they're
giving you a cookie rather
than giving you some secret
that you have to then
be responsible for storing securely.
Correct. Now, now that's the
case with desktop applications. All
of this is very, very
easy. Now there's another type
of Facebook application that year,
right. Which is a web
application, which is more traditional
Facebook apps that you see
in people's profiles. Like the,
you know, like the movies,
the new starters on the
vampire bites and, and the
favorite cars, a favorite felons,
that kind of stuff right
now for an application that
like that, which is hosted
on the web, you actually
had to do some state
management. You know, you get
a query string from Facebook,
which contains your, your session
key. And then you, you
pass it around to the
pages that you want to
host on Facebook. But for
a desktop application, all of
that stuff is, is, is
as much simpler. That's great.
So you didn't have to
have any shared secrets or
anything. You just, you said,
log me in. And they
said a cookie and that
the cookie gets blown away.
You're prompted to log in
again. Correct. I think it's,
it's really, really easy. So
it was the, once you
logged in, you can just
start, you know, queering, you
can start calling methods on
this, on this Facebook object
that you have, you know,
you can say, you know,
get friends lists. It gives
you like an array of,
of objects, which are, you
know, each of them has
like a friend class. Right.
And then you can, you
can, you know, it's all,
you know, there are just
rich classes that you can
start using. So if you,
there's a classical user, for
example, you know, and if
you, if you look at
the properties of the class,
you have, you know, friends
and name and, And they're
handling the serialization, the destabilization
for you. Exactly. Exactly. This
is something I'm definitely gonna
check out for the, my
weekly source code series, because
I'm always interested to see
how, how much someone is
stretched, abstracts away, the wire
protocol. And it sounds like
in this case, it's complete,
you never, you never debug
this. You never looked at
the wire. Yeah. As, as
a.net developer, you don't have
to worry about what's going
on beneath the surface. I
mean, and it's really, really
clean, right. I mean, you
know, me personally, I would
never have attempted this kind
of thing if it had,
if I had to mess
around with the rest API.
And yeah, That's a really
interesting statement. I mean, I
like, for example, I recently
did some work talking to
a thing called with Sabi.
It's an online financial services
thing and they have a
rest API. And the first
thing I did was I
went looking for a managed
API for it and it
didn't exist. So then I
was like, well, how badly
do I want to do
this? Now in this particular
case, I wanted to do
it badly. So I built
a managed API on top
of it, but it sounds
to me like if they
didn't have this managed API,
you probably would have just
said, well, maybe later. Yeah,
exactly. And, you know, and,
and especially since I would
have to write all the
exception handling myself and how
to figure out, you know,
you know, just if the
bits got transferred correctly and
what the XML schema is.
And I just wouldn't want
to do that, but with
managed code, I mean, as
you know, I work for
Microsoft and a lot of
people that listen to your
show probably use dotnet as
their primary. Yeah. I think
it's fair to say that
that's a part of their
primary thing. Yeah. And, and
for people like that, who
are, you know, typically writing
enterprise applications or, you know,
just using.net, because they're familiar
with that. I mean, this,
this just makes it so
much easier and brings this
whole social networking element to,
to what used to be
like our, an enterprise tool.
So anyway, so just going
for a little head, you
know, so, so once the
user is logged into my
app, I know who the
P the person's friends are.
And each, each friend that
has properties, like a small
image, large image, a medium
image. And that's the image,
which the user has submitted
to Facebook on the profiles.
So I have the URL
for their images. Now I
take that URL and I
dump it in a local
temp file. Okay. And then,
and then I log into
outlook using the office PIs.
Okay. The Pia means primary
interoperate assembly. And these are
because office ultimately is a
calm automation or what used
to be called Oli automation.
Right. PIs are the kind
of official gacked way to
talk to outlook and the
manager. Yeah. I forgot look.
Correct. And again, that's also
really, really, really easy mean
if you, if you've, if
you've got the Microsoft, what
does that visual studio for
office? Yeah. VSTO tools for
office. Yeah. So, so VSTO
gives you all the PIs.
You need to talk to
outlook and exchange and PowerPoint,
or Only thing, or did
this cause came with visual
studio. You know what I,
I believe it came installed
just cause I probably, I
think I have the, the
professional enterprise version, official studio,
so, okay. Officials do 2008,
includes all this stuff too
off the bat. One thing
I want to back up
on briefly is that just
issues of privacy. So I
understand that when someone adds
me as a friend on
Facebook, I have a choice
to show them either my
profile or my limited profile.
So I think that people
who might be listening, who
are thinking about what, gosh,
my friends are now using
this photo for maybe things
I didn't expect them to,
but you are able to
give people access to, or
reject access to things like
your photo, your phone number
and your email address. Definitely.
It means sometimes, you know,
you you'll start clicking around
at your friends, friends list
and you'll see people whose
photo is invisible to you
because you're not their friend
you're considered just an anonymous
surfer. And, you know, and,
and this API respects all
of that Facebook privacy control
that a user would face.
So this API doesn't give
you as a developer, any,
any additional access to the
user profile and you would
have had as a user
anyways, To reiterate that it
doesn't API, doesn't give you
any additional power that the
user wouldn't ordinarily have. And
in fact, the API goes
one step ahead. So Facebook
itself does not expose a
user's email address and certain
information like phone numbers to
the API. So as an
end, so as a user,
you know, if, if I'm
your friend on Facebook, Scott,
I can look at your
email address. Right, right. And
I can email you from
Facebook. Right. But as a
developer, I can't obtain, I
don't have access to your
email address. And I think
Facebook put that, check it
there just to prevent someone
from harvesting. So even if
someone authorized an application thinking
it was not evil, right.
And it was evil, it
still wouldn't have access to
these. Exactly. And, and, and
these things specifically, it's, it's
the email address. I don't
know for sheriff block's phone
numbers too, but I think
it's, it's a couple of
fields which, which Facebook considers
to be crucial and, you
know, to avoid spam and
to avoid information leak. So,
so, you know, people sometimes
email me and say, well,
you know, I have these
contacts on Facebook, which I
don't have an outlook. So
can you create outlook contacts
from Facebook? Yeah. And the
answer is I can't do
that because all I have
access to as a picture
and the, and the name
and certain other information, which
probably isn't very useful without
the email address. Yeah. I
see. So Facebook, from an
API perspective, isn't a full,
complete contact management application at
this point. Correct. And, and,
you know, I think it's,
it's better that way because
they're doing what they want.
Well, yeah. I mean, it's
a book of faces. I
mean, I understand that. I
think I have immediately one
question though, which is, how
are you synchronizing this? I
assumed you were looking at
email addresses. What happens if
John Smith and John Smith appear in
my outlook and my Facebook,
but it's a different guy.
Yeah. Like good questions got.
So I obviously, I can't
use the email address. Right.
I mean, that would have
been a very good way
to, to, to match. Yeah.
That's a good primary key,
foreign key relationship, Access to
email addresses. I'm doing something
really, really simple. And you
can get, I'm just using
the first name, last name.
Oh, wow. Yeah. And, you
know, it's, it seems like
it's overly simplistic, but it
works. And I mean, I'm
sure you've used out sync
and you know, Problems, but
now you've got me wondering
if one of these days
a John Smith is going to
call me and I'm going
to see another guy's face.
What if there are multiples,
do you deal with that?
I just, yeah. I just
use the first, Sorry, I
didn't mean to out like
out your bugs in this
interview, this is a very
interesting question. Crushing. And people
have, you know, people that
ask me variations of this,
right. I mean, one is,
you know, can you create
a new outlook contact based
on the Facebook contact? And
the answer is, yeah, it
could, but it wouldn't have
a lot of feasible information
would have a name and
a picture. It would have
a name, a picture, and
maybe, you know, their hometown
and, you know, their, you
know, I guess a relationship
status and things like that,
which you wouldn't really find
useful without any email address
on the flip side. You
know, and the other question
I get asked is, well,
you know, I have people
in outlook. Well, I have
people in both places, but
outlook, the, you know, the
name is John L. Smith and on
Facebook, it's John Smith and how
come it's Don matching. That
was my next question. What
about middle initials? Yeah. Yeah.
It doesn't match those, unfortunately.
So yeah. And I haven't
really come up with a
good solution for that. I
mean, one solution might be
that, you know, let the
user manually match contacts and
then store the Facebook ID
and the outlook ID somewhere
in the registry or somewhere
in, like in a file
or something like that. A
really great feature. Yeah. I
think that they would, there
are those people who have
their, who care about their
middle initial. Yeah. And it
would be interesting to make
a judgment call about whether
or not it's more likely
that their middle initial would
appear in Facebook because that's
the profile they created versus
outlook context, which is ultimately
what you created. Sure. So
if I met John Q. Smith, I
don't care about the queue.
I put John Smith and outlook,
but he does, he puts
it in and out and
out, But it could go
either way. Cause, cause Facebook
doesn't ask you for a
middle initial. They don't have
a feel for middle initial,
but outlook does. So when
you're entering someone from a
business card, for example, you,
you know, you would probably
put in their middle initial
when you're doing it yourself.
Yeah. On Facebook. I rarely
see people. I don't think
I've ever seen someone with
a multinational and Facebook. Yeah.
Interesting. So, so this was
sort of like a pride
to feature for me, you
know, I have what'd you
just say that's a Microsoft,
isn't a too. So this
is a priority two thing.
Yeah. So, so probably two
is usually something which is
a nice to have and
pride threes are usually, you
know, cut line stuff, Hotline.
Okay. I'm sorry. I've only
been at the company seven
weeks. I got to ask
you for all the translation.
Yes. Got it. You stick
around long enough. You'll talk,
you'll start talking like the
product groups. So, so this
was something I, you know,
I actually had the plumbing
work for this underneath the
surface. I just didn't have
the UI that, you know,
I just didn't have the
time to create the UI
for it, but it's definitely
something I'm going to work
on when I, when I
do that. Yeah. I think
that'd be a really fun
feature because I'm out of
the thousand odd friends on
Facebook and the 2000 people
in, out in outlook, I
think ended up like 300,
398 or something like that.
What seemed like a high
number. But now I'm wondering,
there may be another a
hundred guys, a hundred people
in there There most likely
are. And Scott, I mean,
you know, you being a
very well known person. I
mean, you have, I always
thought you were gonna say
gregarious, but well you do.
I mean, you know, most
people that have used my
app, you know, have used
it with three, you know,
maybe two, two 50, 300
contacts and, and you know,
with, with, with the dataset
that size, you don't really
have a lot of dupes,
but I guess with 2000
people, I mean, there is
a possibility that you have
See the dirty little secret
about me and this is
just horrible, but now I'm
saying it on tape is
that I know these people,
I meet these people. I
shake people's hands. I talk
to people and I have
really interesting conversations with strangers
at conferences. I just, and
I remember them. Here's the
part, that's horrible. I remember
these conversations. I met a
guy at deaf connections. I
literally just came off the
plane. I mean, you're, we're,
we're sitting here in my
hotel in Seattle. I just
came from Vegas, had like
20 minute conversation with a
guy. I remembered when I
had met him before tech
ed, 2003, I knew what
problem he had. I, we
were talking about, I remember
the code. He showed me.
I did not know this
guy's name for the life
of me. I he's like,
he probably don't remember me.
And I was like, Oh,
asp.net. One, one, you had
a problem with the farms
with indication. You had no
idea what his name was.
This kind of, this kind
of application that's can show
me in someone's face. It
makes all the difference to,
to put the name to
the face. Yeah, totally. And,
and, and, you know, there,
so in, in the first
version that I did, I
essentially just focused on getting
the PA the person's picture
into your windows mobile device.
That was the biggest that
happens automatically with the active
site. So let me just
finish my train of thought
there, but in, in a
future version, mean I could,
you know, bring down other
information like their relationship status
or their hometown, or, you
know, some of the other
stuff that people have on
Facebook such as their current
status, or, you know, their
current employer, which has all
of this as all of
the above are fields that
Facebook does expose an API.
So, so, you know, maybe
the next time you meet
that guy, you know, you've
already got his information from
Facebook. So you don't have
to think about, you know,
if the person still work
in the same company, or
if he's almost married now
he's, you know, moved around
a little. So anyway, so
that's definitely something we can
sync with outlook. Now, going
back to your next question
about windows mobile. So what
I do is I use
the outlook PIs to, to
insert these images into the
outlook contacts. And again, there's
a very clean API for
that. You can just open
up, you know, you can,
you can iterate the, the
contacts in your, in your
outlook folder. And then for
each contact, there's an a,
there's a, there's a method.
I think it's called set
picture or set photo. And
it takes a, the parameter
is a local file path.
So I just take that.
Wow, that's easy. Yeah. You
know, I just take that
temp file that I stored
for their image and then
sign the photo and I
get back an error code.
If there is anything, Now
the image doesn't have to
exist on disk. It gets
sucked into outlook world and
then lives in your PST,
or there's an exchange. Yeah.
And then I just get
rid of the, the temp
file. And then that image
becomes part, you know, it
gets stored internally as an
attachment within outlook itself. So
yeah. And then you can
just delete that image from
the, from the, I found
this to be very useful
because it doesn't only appear
in windows mobile, but it
also appears next to their
name in outlook. So when
I'm emailing folks, I'm seeing
their face as well. So
people's faces are popping up
all over, Correct. And it
even shows up in outlook
web access and within windows
mobile in, in, in the,
you know, if, if, if
you have an ISV app
such as pocket informant, or
there's all sorts of, you
know, outlook mobile replacements, they
can leverage that image too.
I mean, anyway, you know,
windows mobile has an API
to, to iterate the contacts
list, just like outlook does
on the desktop side. I
was just going to take
up a lot of space.
I didn't really think about
this. I've got all 2000
contacts on my device and
now I've got all 400
photos, but I haven't had
any trouble. Did you, did
you make them smaller or
did It gets smaller? So
I'm not making them smaller
because the good news is
when you sync those images,
when exchange sinks, those images,
there's some logic on the
exchange side that shrinks those
images down to a size
that's compatible with windows mobile.
I think there is a,
there's a limit. It can,
the images can be only
be six 64 kilobytes, or
I don't know what the,
what the number is, but
there is a limit. And
I know that because I've
talked to the, the active
sync team, Because I didn't
think about it. And interestingly,
my particular device, you know,
some people will use a
USB cable to plug in
and use active sync. My
mobile phone has never actually
touched my computer. They do
everything wirelessly. So all these
photos came down over my
data plan. Yeah. And yeah,
I mean, each image isn't
taking up some three or
400 kilobytes. I mean, it's,
it's taking up some amount
of space, like, you know,
you know, within a hundred
kilobytes and it's, it's reasonable.
So yes, it takes a
space, but it's not gonna,
Yeah. I haven't noticed any
problems and it hasn't slowed
anything down, interestingly enough. Yeah.
I mean, the, you know,
the, the pocket outlook application
or the, the context application
on your mobile phone is
designed to work with as
many images as you have.
So if even if all
your contacts had photos, I
would still work it's it
can scale nicely. Yeah. On
the version of windows mobile
that I'm running, I'm running
kind of an internal build.
I've noticed. I'm not sure
if you can tell me
whether this is like this
in windows mobile five, when
it was mobile six, the
phone will ring. It'll tell
me the phone number. And
it's working in the background
to figure out the person's
name, then a few fraction
of a second later, the
person's name will appear and
then a fraction of a
second later, their, their photo
up here. So none of
these things are slowing the
phone down because it's happening
in the background. Yeah. And,
and the same thing happens,
you know, in the, in
the internal version of windows
mobile, which we can't talk
about it publicly right now.
But you know, you'll notice
that the image is exposed
in a lot, a lot
of other places as well.
So for example, if you
get a text message, it
shows up in, in a,
in a really cool way
in certain parts of the
device, and it shows up
with your, with that, with
the image of the person.
So, so, you know, once
that image is on the
device, it can be leveraged
by a number of internal
apps, as well as eyes
we have Out there. Yeah.
A lot of people were
giving me a hassle of
taking back my iPhone. I
bought an iPhone. I used
it for 13 days. I
took it back because I
just didn't realize how much
of my, how much exchange
it for me was my
brain. Yeah. And then when
I installed out sync and
started getting people's photos on
my system, I didn't realize
how pervasive it was because
those photos would appear in
outlook, web access did appear
on the phone. The phone
would ring, you know, there's
my wife's face. Those kinds
of things. I didn't. Yeah.
And, and, you know, I
think that's a limitation of
the iPhone, not sinking natively
with exchange right now. Yeah.
But I mean, there's no
reason why some third party
can't write a sync provider,
which will take those photos
and copy them to the
iPhone as well. Cause those
photos exist on in your
exchange account or within your
outlook account. Right. So not
to give you like feature
requests, but since I've got
you here, I'm thinking of
all the different other places
where people's faces are that
I might want to potentially
get into, into outlook and
to exchange, I'm thinking about,
I've got about 350 windows
messenger contacts. A lot of
those folks have, have faces.
I'm thinking about other social
networking sites. It seems like
out sync could potentially be
a face collector. It could
not only decide that you've
got multiple John Smith's and
have you mapped them, but
you might be able to
go and log into, into
Plaxo and Delaney, LinkedIn into
messenger, into Yahoo and say,
well, here's three, here are
the three faces of Mel
Sampat. Which one would you
like to show up in
your phone? Yeah, that's a,
that's a really, really good
idea. And in fact, you
know, someone internally, a guy
works in the SharePoint team
does the same thing. Cause
so SharePoint has a social
networking aspect of it, right?
It does. Yeah. Yeah. It's
really neat. Microsoft, this whole,
my site's concept that we
have. Yes. So if you
go to HTTP mine within
Microsoft, you look at this,
the, this page built, which
is about the user. You
see his photo, you see
his, you know, the default
as, as a, as a
photo that shows up on
his badge, but BCL is
how their profile information about
the person. So, you know,
someone from the SharePoint team
asked me if, if you
could sync Facebook contacts with
SharePoint and, and there's a,
you know, there's a lot
of cool things we can
do, right? Like you said,
a windows live contacts, and
I was an API that
you can sync with. And
there, you know, as long
as there is an API
out sync can potentially be
used to, to, to talk
to it. It's interesting. You
said, he said he wanted
to sync Facebook With SharePoint.
And interestingly, I keep thinking
of exchange as being that
kind of outlook is my
middle place. Like for example,
we have this an internal
thing called you know, office
communicator. Of course other people
use communicator in their enterprises
if they have exchange. And
when you're logged into the,
the, the corporate network, if
I click on your name
at the bottom, I see
your badge, I see a
picture of you. So I've
got a lot of Microsoft
context. I would love you
to have to suck those
down and put them into
outlook. Those to those faces
don't automatically appear in outlook.
Do they know? But they
appear in communicator data to
see, you can make, you
can make this happen. You
can. Yeah. Yeah. And it's,
it's really interesting, you know,
that once, once a platform,
whether it's Facebook or whether
it's SharePoint or outlook or
exchange, I mean, once it
has an API, which exposes
a user information, I mean,
there's just so many cool
things you can do within
this playground. It's a playground.
I mean, and it, you
know, it, it really makes
a lot of these stodgy
enterprise products into social networking
playgrounds. So this isn't the
only Facebook application you have.
We've been talking about desktop
applications and when you have
the full power of the
desktop, you can do a
lot of stuff. But you
also mentioned a little bit
before about a web application.
So you have a totally
separate application that runs in
Facebook. Yeah. So just to
put it in perspective, I
mean, most people that use
Facebook probably have seen traditional
web based applications, which, which,
which fit right into their
profiles and desktop applications are
kind of rare. You don't
see a lot of apps
that people out of download
Yours is actually the only
one I've ever used. So
that's like was, is, is
one good example of something
you did with the desktop
app. But, but I have
this other app, which is,
you know, more like a,
you know, one of the
zombie apps or one of
those. Yeah. When you say
people who aren't using Facebook
won't know what a zombie
application is. One of the
things that's interesting about Facebook
is that the applications are
viral and this can be
a good thing and a
bad thing. They are viral
only to the level of
viral illness you give them.
So for example, an application
might be a favorite movies.
So you install the little
application and it appears as
a square somewhere in your
profile. There's like a portal
it's like picking a web
part in SharePoint, but it's
in a Facebook particular way.
And then I might go
and say here at my
different movies, and then the
application can choose to say,
well, you really ought to
tell your friends about this.
Since I have access to
your friends list, check these
boxes, and I will send
an invitation for them to
install this application. And this
is allowed really geometric or
exponential, even growth of these
applications where a good app
spreads. Unfortunately, though, and this
is just an opinion, there
are these things called vampire
and zombie. These are games
basically where you've been bitten
by, by Mel. And then
I have to install the
application and I can go
buy other people. And it's
a fun quote, unquote Virus.
Well, it's fun until a
year. Your manager's manager's manager,
which is essentially my general
manager sends me the, you
know, well, I get this
email saying that, you know,
so, and so has bitten
you. And this guy is
my Uber manager and your
Uber manager, Uber manager. And
I'm sitting there thinking, well,
Steve Palmer has bitten you.
Yeah. You know, Steve farmer
has bitten you on Facebook.
Would you like to bike
back? And here I'm thinking,
well, what does that do
for my career? If I
like my manager back, or
if I don't find him,
I mean, am I suppose,
Well then the other question
is that how high does
this manager know what he's
done? Right. I mean, does
he installed something he shouldn't
have installed? I always worry
about, well to try to
save them from themselves. So
interesting. Cause everyone at Microsoft
is on Facebook now. Right.
And you know, there's just
like everyday, like, you know,
some new person I worked
with is on Facebook and
adds me as a friend.
And it's not surprising that
you know, that the upper
management is on Facebook too.
And you gotta be really
careful with what you post
on there. You know, you
know, some people have their
political views or they have,
you know, things like, well,
you just had like all
sorts of personal stuff, which
you don't want to, you
know, actually have your management,
maybe, you know, your court.
Well, these are public things.
I mean, Facebook profiles show
up on Google and Facebook
profiles can be found. Yeah.
You know, another interesting thing
that happened was I was
actually in San Francisco last
weekend, visiting a friend who
moved from Microsoft to Google.
And I posted an update
on my Facebook saying, you
know, I'm doing a tour
of Google. And when I
came back to Redmond, my
manager pulled me into his
office and said, Hey, Mel,
are you happy with your
job? Is there anything you
need to tell me? Like,
sure. What are you talking
about? I'm happy. It's like,
well, you know, apparently, you
know, there was a rumor
about you, you know, being
at Google. And is there
anything you need we needed
to talk about Because you
stopped by yeah. That's the,
you live in the public
life if you're on Facebook.
Yeah. Facebook. Yeah. So anyway,
so I have this other
app called, I love my
phone and it's got, maybe
you can post a link
to this. Right? Put this
on the show notes. You
know, again, it's related since
I work in the windows
mobile team it's related to
phones and what it does
is, you know, people want
to show off their movies
on Facebook or their favorite
recipes or their favorite artists.
Why, you know, I'm proud
of the phone I use.
Right. I mean, I love,
you know, Can we both,
we have the same phone
and I'm looking at your
phone. It's mostly a T-Mobile
dash. Yeah. Yeah. It's great.
Yeah. So, so I'd like
to go on Facebook and
show the world, Hey, this
is the full name. And,
you know, several people have
similar opinions about the iPhone
or, you know, like, you
know, any, anything cool that
you use it, whether it's
a Blackberry or I fell
under windows mobile phone. So,
so I, you know, I
have this, this website where
I host a database with
a list of the top
100 phones okay. From, from
Amazon's list. Right. And I'll
let people select a phone
from there in the lift
and the database. And, and
they, they say, okay, this
is my, this is the
phone I use. And it
shows up as a little
box on their profile saying,
you know, Oh, with the
picture pulled from Amazon with
a picture Amazon, I'm just
calling Amazon's web service to,
you know, to show a
picture there. And it's, it's
really, you know, tying together,
you know, Amazon's web service
with asp.net on the, on
the website. And Facebook's again,
it's using Facebook's framework that
Microsoft developed. So how do
you keep your application from
being your, you know, your
servers from being crushed by
this, this huge amount of
Facebook, traffic has more and
more and more people install
your applications. That's a great
question, Scott. So, you know,
it might seem like every
time you look at a
person's profile, every single application
that the user has on
the profile is actually being
loaded from the application developers
website. But that's not really
the case. What happens is
only when you want to
configure an application such as
for your Flixster movies app,
you know, when you want
to select your favorite movies
or in my case, when
you want to select your
favorite phone, that's when the
developer's website comes into the
picture. So the developer's website
is hosted within an eye
frame. You can, you know,
so Facebook gives you a
session. And as a developer,
you can use that session
to configure the user profile.
And in certain, certain HTML
within the user's profile. And
that, that HTML that you
as a developer give to
Facebook gets cast. So just
the contents of the eye
frame, just that, that moment
in time that stays there.
Yeah. So, so, so for
example, if within my app
specifically, right, when the user
says he wants to select
a favorite phone, you know,
I load this I-frame, which
shows a couple of dropdown
boxes. You know, where the
user can select his phone.
His carrier has not yet.
This is all live, really
hitting your actual machine. Correct.
And, but this is, again,
this is not something I
use or would want to
do every single day, just
like a user one, want
to change his favorite movies
every day. He wouldn't want
to change this one, want
to go into configuring the
app every single day. Right.
So he does it once
he presses submit. And then
my app generates a chunk
of HTML. Well, technically it's
not HTML it's FBML, which
has a special marker The
language for it because we
needed another markup language. Well,
it's a market language that
ensures that The HTML is
consistent with Facebook's design guidelines.
So Facebook has done a
really good job of making
their own markup language, which
supports a few HTML tags,
but essentially it's got special
tags, like title and, you
know, subtitle, Because that was
my next, my next question
was gonna be, what about
CSS and how does it
all look the same? Yes.
So, so you have to
use FBML too to show
content within the user's profile,
I'm extrapolating and guessing here,
but if they decided to
change their whole site thematically,
they would change their FPL,
you know, back end and
the whole site, everyone would
look the same. Yeah. Yeah.
So, so as a developer,
you're not allowed to use
CSS within the, the content
that's shown on the, on
the profile page. You can
do whatever you want and
the I-frame, which is the
configuration page. And the Facebook
doesn't care if that looks
completely different than their profile
page, but they wanna ensure
that the profile page itself
looks very consistent. And that
really, you know, you might've
heard about, you know, people
say that Facebook has a
lot more professional looking than
my space, for example, it
kinda is. Yeah. And, and,
and this is a reason
why, because developers can not
just put random HTML on
the profile And from a
security perspective as well. Yeah.
And, and so, you know,
from a security perspective, it
prevents things like phishing attacks,
you know, you can't just
insert an image, you know,
you know how people insert
like a zero pixel image,
which can call scripts on
a, on a, another server.
You can't do things like
that. Cause Facebook caches that
image as well as the
FBML My next question. So
you've got a picture, you've
got a hundred different pictures.
Are they hitting Amazon? Are
they hitting? They only hit
Amazon when you configuring the
app. But when you, when
you, when you create the,
the FBML, which you give
to Facebook, Facebook takes all
the images that it references
and a cash has them,
and it puts them on
its own servers. So, you
know, it serves a lot
of purposes, right? One is
obviously we talked about, which
is consistency in the, in
the UI, you know, you
can't just create your own
CSS tags or you can't,
you know, make texts larger
than it should be Facebook
and control the look and
feel. The second is Facebook
and guarantee that the profile
page is always going to
be available regardless of the
spikes and bandwidth, or if
an application selling becomes more
popular, popular than the, than
the developer expected, Facebook can
scale it servers. Right. Cause
they're, they have more bandwidth,
conceivably, more bandwidth than a
third party developer. So yeah.
That's, I mean, that's very
clever that's that seems, it's
kind of a, it's kind
of obvious, of course, once
you have thought about it,
but how else would they
do it? There's lots of
companies like, like Yahoo, I've
been having trouble with widgets
and stuff. Right. But you
know, the first time you
started writing a Facebook application,
you may not realize that
this is the way it
works. And you may, you
know, you just need to
know that this is the
architecture. And it took me,
you know, a few hours
to realize that I couldn't
update what's on the profile
in real time because that's
cash. Right. So for example,
I couldn't show the weather
over there, you know, because
that information is cash and
it can't just call a
script to update itself automatically.
You have to put in,
you know, you had to
go through some extra hoops
to get that information to
me. Yeah. So how did
you render the FBML? Is
this response dot right tags?
Or did you just write
this into your ASP X
page with a certain mind
type? No, that's not a
mind type it's, it's actually
easier than you would think.
It's, I'm just using a
string builder too, to you
heard it here, folks. So
I'm using this from builder
class to, to create the,
not rocket science. It's not
rocket science now. And, and
Facebook has this, this tool,
I think it's called FBML
test emulator where you can
type in your FBML and
it shows you what it
would look like on the
Facebook's profile on a Facebook
profile. So, so I typed
in all my FBML, my
placeholder FML. I made sure
it looks and feels the
way I want it to,
and then I just copy
and paste it into my
visual CDO, into my C
sharp code. And I just,
you know, replace the placeholder
text with what the actual
variables should be. Cool. Well,
so we P we'll put
some links up to, to,
to out sync too. I
love my phone. I love
my phone and I, and
everyone, everyone who listens to
Hanselman should now become your
friend on Facebook. So I
want to see a, of
add friends to a male,
so he can at least
decline you cause he doesn't
know who you are. Well,
so, so again, you know,
I just want to stress
that, you know, writing Facebook
apps can be very addictive
and, and you can, you
know, if you're a developer
that's used a dotnet code,
it's it's really, really easy
and you can do it
desktop applications without saying sand,
you can find web applications,
which is more common these
days. And, and once you're
white, your first Facebook app,
you have a framework in
place that you can just
use to create another app
and more and more and
more apps. And, you know,
Facebook is as most of,
you know, Facebook is the
first, you know, social networking
site that has an open
platform and API and stuff.
So, you know, you should
definitely go and leverage that
Well, well, thanks for taking
the time to talk to
us. And this has been
another episode of Hansel minutes.
We will see you next
week.